add support for discovery.triton flow component and converter (#5036)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/discovery.triton.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.triton/
title: discovery.triton
---

# discovery.triton

`discovery.triton` discovers [Triton][] Container Monitors and exposes them as targets.

[Triton]: https://www.tritondatacenter.com

## Usage

```river
discovery.triton "LABEL" {
	account    = ACCOUNT
	dns_suffix = DNS_SUFFIX
	endpoint   = ENDPOINT
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name               | Type           | Description                                                         | Default       | Required
------------------ | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------
`account`          | `string`       | The account to use for discovering new targets.                     |               | yes
`role`             | `string`       | The type of targets to discover.                                    | `"container"` | no
`dns_suffix`       | `string`       | The DNS suffix which should be applied to target.                   |               | yes

> `endpoint`         | `string`       | The Triton discovery endpoint (e.g. 'cmon.us-east-3b.triton.zone'). |               | yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`endpoint`         | `string`       | The Triton discovery endpoint (e.g. 'cmon.us-east-3b.triton.zone'). |               | yes
```

Should we include examples in the argument descriptions? This has come up before and we've generally opted for no examples here. If we do include the example, use `for example` instead of `e.g.`.

Author: example removed

> `groups`           | `list(string)` | A list of groups for which targets are retrieved.                   |               | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`groups`           | `list(string)` | A list of groups to retrieve targets from.                   |               | no
```

You can end a sentence with a preposition. This description is not wrong the way it was written but it's not conversational or natural. You can leave it or change it.. up to you.

`port`             | `int`          | The port to use for discovery and metrics scraping.                 | `9163`        | no

> `refresh_interval` | `duration`     | Interval at which to refresh the list of targets.                   | `60s`         | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`refresh_interval` | `duration`     | The refresh interval for the list of targets.                   | `60s`         | no
```

Could we simplify here? Or does this change the meaning from what you intended?

`version`          | `int`          | The Triton discovery API version.                   | `1`           | no

`role` can be set to:
* `"container"` to discover virtual machines (SmartOS zones, lx/KVM/bhyve branded zones) running on Triton
* `"cn"` to discover compute nodes (servers/global zones) making up the Triton infrastructure

`groups` is only supported when `role` is set to `"container"`. If omitted all
containers owned by the requesting account are scraped.

## Blocks
The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`discovery.triton`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
tls_config | [tls_config][] | TLS configuration for requests to the Triton API. | no

[tls_config]: #tls_config-block

### tls_config block

> {{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}
```

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of targets discovered from the Triton API.

> When `role` is set to `"container"` each target includes the following labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `role` is set to `"container"`, each target includes the following labels:
```
